----
= Special Thanks =
----

This is just a page to give special thanks to a few people who have helped the project.  This is by no means an all inclusive list. 

== dmrom ==
 
A big special thanks goes to dmrom. 

his contributions include:

 * [Plugin_getdir _getdir]
 * [PluginAutotools Auto Tools]
 * [PluginDataDir Datadir]
 * [PluginErasedata Erase Data]
 *  initplugins.php 

== Zoltan Csala ==

A big special thanks goes out to Zoltan Csala

his contributions include:

 * [PluginChunks Chunks]
 * [PluginGeoIP GeoIP]

== Brock / stfnborg ==

A really big thanks goes out to Brock for his amazing irc plugin. 

 * [PluginAutodlirssi Autodl-irssi]

== Gyran ==

Special thanks are due to gyran for his really cool plugin which pauses the webui.

 * [PluginPause Pause]

== thezwallrus ==

Special thanks to thezwallrus for his label modifications.

 * [PluginTaddLabel Tadd-Suite]

== soupnazi ==

Also, thanks are due to soupnazi for his nfo viewing plugin.

 * [PluginNFO NFO]

== Ivan_83 ==

And thanks are due to Ivan_83 for his hostname plugin.

 * [PluginHostname Hostname]


== ScarS ==

Special thanks go out to ScarS from the rutorrent forums for his 2 plugins:

 * [PluginInstantSearch InstantSearch]
 * [PluginLogoff Logoff]

== Tranlation Shout outs ==

 _*(note:  This is likely not an all inclusive list. I have added the information i personally know about, if you provided a translation and i forgot to include it, please email me at wonslung@gmail.com -Wonslung)*_

 * Blueeyes -- Chinese Traditional
 * Nicobubulle -- French (also, a big thanks for running the French section of the [http://forums.rutorrent.org/index.php?board=28.0 Forums])
 * RascalliM -- Dutch
 * Turgay Yıldıran -- Turkish
 * Сергей Копьев - English.
 * Владимир Кан - Ukrainian.

== Special mention ==

Also, i would like to say thanks to Alexander from the rutorrent [http://forums.rutorrent.org Forums] for his low bandwidth bounty.  The work which resulted from this bounty will bring huge benefits to the rutorrent community.  For more information, see http://forums.rutorrent.org/index.php?topic=192.0

A Special thanks to Theduckster for the current rutorrent logo.

A Special Thanks to Safar for donating the rutorrent.org domain name to the project. 